# Update 2025-01

## PyPI Safety & Security Engineer

Mike focused on enhancing security measures and responding to incidents.
While he spent some efforts on routine maintenance tasks,
his primary focus was toward malware abuse response and prevention.

### Malware

In January, Mike addressed 68 malware reports,
with some cases requiring more complex analysis and intervention.
One such analysis resulted in an advisory
([PYSEC-2025-2](https://osv.dev/vulnerability/PYSEC-2025-2)).
The [Project Quarantine](https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2024-12-30-quarantine/)
feature proved to be highly effective in containing potential threats,
allowing Mike to take action off-hours, protecting users and the ecosystem.
Mike has begun exploring ways to automate this process further to
streamline operations and minimize malware time-on-index,
leveraging external security reporters.

Mike improved the PyPI Admin UI, providing more context to the operator,
and improving response times, especially on mobile browsers.

The next foray into abuse prevention,
Mike collected prior efforts on typo-squatting prevention,
from both PyPI and other ecosystems. More to come on this front.

### Security

Mike spent some time learning more about the advanced rules in
[Fastly NGWAF](https://www.fastly.com/products/web-application-api-protection),
to improve detection of malicious traffic and enhance the security of PyPI's infrastructure.
One such rule has been added to TestPyPI to test if the changes have the desired affect.

## Other items

- Tested upgrading PyPI to Python 3.13
- Supported adding "Archived" status to projects (guest blog post incoming)
- Added metrics to aid with diagnosing client-side failed uploads
- Tested out a new search index, while not used, took some of the learnings to improve current search operations
- Aided in determining the root cause of missing metadata in BigQuery
- Supported PSF staff in data collection for reports
- Various maintenance tasks and code reviews
